

Before this method of image captioning, typical image caption generators were used to generate caption of an image comprised of several words. The main drawback of these type of system was that the generated caption will be in any particular language and in order to get this caption in another language we have to use seperate language translator tool. If the required caption is not in the same language as generated caption is, then adding seperate language translator will make the system more complex and might not yield desired results. This invention introduces the method/algorithm to overcome this situation.

The inventors of this patent have invented an algorithm for automatic image captioning which makes image captioning in muliple languages very easy. Conventional image caption generation system uses a stack of convolutional neural networks followed by recurrent neural network which outputs the caption in any particular language. If we train such a model using database with captions in English language then this model will output captions in English only. If the user wants this caption in other language then he or she has to use language translator. Here, introduced algorithm takes slightly different approach. This method outputs points in semantic word vector space instead of directly generating a sentence in one langauge. Here the interesting part is that we can use word vectors of any desired language and project this points in this word vector space in order to get caption in that particular language.

The method of image caption generation using a set of convolutional and recurrent neural networks;
The word vector representation using methods such as word2vec or glove;
How to map a point in a word vector space to respective words;
How convolutional neural network process visual data and how recurrent neural network process the sequential data.

This is the state-of-the-art method for automatic image captioning and this invention has also solved the problem of language translation. However, this system might require heavy computation since this involes the calculation of word vectors for any language. Therefore, this leaves the issue of efficiency and how to make this computation faster which we need to solve.